# Source: https://vu.nl/en/education/more-about/apply-masters-programme

How do I apply for a Master’s programme? - Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam Education Research Current About VU Amsterdam NL Login as Prospective student Student Employee Bachelor Master VU for Professionals Exchange programme VU Amsterdam Summer School Honours programme VU-NT2 Semester in Amsterdam PhD at VU Amsterdam Research highlights Prizes and distinctions Research institutes Our scientists Research Impact Support Portal Creating impact News Events calendar Elections 2025 Israël and Palestinian regions Culture on campus Practical matters Mission and core values Entrepreneurship on VU Campus Organisation Partnerships Alumni University Library Working at VU Amsterdam Sorry! De informatie die je zoekt, is enkel beschikbaar in het Engels. This programme is saved in My Study Choice. Something went wrong with processing the request. Something went wrong with processing the request. How do I apply for a Master’s programme? Are you a prospective master's student? Read more about the application procedure, admission requirements and language requirements for master's programmes at VU Amsterdam. More specific information can be found on the programme webpages and in the Teaching and Education Regulations (TERs) . Applications for 2025-2026 are possible from the beginning of October. Not yet started your application? Step 1 of the application procedure Start your application in Studielink International Master's webinar Create a My Study Choice account or log in to watch the recording Stream the on-demand webinar Application procedure Which application procedure applies in your situation depends on the type of diploma you have obtained and the language of instruction of the programme of your interest. We have listed the different procedures for you down below. Programmes with a partner institution The application for these studies is done through Studielink . Check in Studielink which educational institution you need to apply to. Application process Want to learn more about the application process? Then check out our step-by-step application video for international diploma applicants! Check out the video! Accept all social media cookies to view this content Manage cookie settings International Degree Holders Application deadlines The following deadlines apply if you are applying to a Master’s programme on the basis of a non-Dutch university degree. Applications received after the deadlines cannot be taken into consideration! 1 December 2025: This is the advised programme application deadline for all students wishing to apply for one of the VU Amsterdam scholarships . The final application deadline for most scholarships is 1 February, but you can only apply for the VUFP, HSP and OTS scholarships after you have been conditionally admitted to your Master’s programme. In terms of planning, this means that our advised final programme application deadline is 1 December for those students wishing to apply for a VU scholarship. This is because it may take up to around 6 weeks to receive your admission decision once your application is complete. Please be aware that we cannot guarantee you will receive your decision within six weeks, so we encourage you to apply as soon as possible. If the application procedure for your selected Master’s programme includes an intake/interview, then we advise you to submit your programme application as soon as possible in October/November, so you have plenty of time before the scholarship deadlines. 1 April 2026: Non-EU/ non-EEA students who need a visa and/or residence permit . 1 June 2026 : EU/ EEA students* * We encourage EU/EEA students to apply before 1 April if they wish to make use of the university housing services. Please note that some Master's programmes have a different application deadline . Please make sure to carefully read all information on the programme website of the Master's programme of your choice. Before you apply: learn more about the programme and check if you match the admission requirements Check the admission requirements Before you start your application, first check the admission requirements on the programme page of the programme you wish to apply for. You can also do a self-assessment using one of our Student Self-Check Tools below for some of the Master's programmes. Check your eligibility for your programme of choice here Before applying, please check if you are satisfying the programme requirements by using the Student Self-Check tools below: Faculty of Science Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Artificial Intelligence Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Business Analytics Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Environment and Resource Management School of Business and Economics Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Digital Business and Innovation Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Transport & Supply Chain Management Faculty of Humanities Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Arts & Culture: Specialisation Comparative Arts & Media Studies Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Arts & Culture: Specialisation Contemporary Arts History Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Arts & Culture: Specialisation Design Cultures Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Philosophy, Bioethics and Health Faculty of Social Sciences Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Culture, Organization and Management Faculty of Behavioural and Movement Sciences Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Work and Organizational Psychology Faculty of Law Student Self-Check tool - Master's in Law Step 1: Apply in Studielink The following procedure applies if you are applying on the basis of a non-Dutch university degree. You can start your application for a September 2025 enrollment from October 2024 onwards. Take a look at the step-by-step application video to find out how you can apply for our English-taught programmes with an international diploma and read the information below. Go to Studielink and create an application for the study programme you wish to apply for. In Studielink you can apply for a maximum of 4 courses in total in the Netherlands. Do you currently live in the Netherlands? Then you will need to log in with your DigiD. If you do not yet live in the Netherlands you can choose "Log in without DigiD". When you create your Studielink account via this option you will need a scan or photo of your valid passport or European ID card. Create an application in Studielink Studielink Q&A Step-by-step plans (studielink.nl) Important when creating an application: When using login details for creating an application in Studielink, please select Create Studielink account without DigiD . Make sure that the e-mail address you fill in in Studielink ( My details ) is correct: you will receive important notices concerning your enrolment via this address. Please enter your prior education (on the basis of which your application will be assessed) correctly. Select the study programme of choice with ( WO Master ) at the end from the list in Studielink ( note: specialisations can be selected in your personal dashboard ). Enter your payment details so that the correct tuition fee can be calculated. This does not generate an automatic payment. The deadline for payment is 31 August 2025. Please be aware that your enrolment must be fully completed on 31 August 2025 in order to start your study programme on 1 September 2025. If your enrollment is not complete on this date, you will have to postpone your study programme until the following academic year. Step 2: Complete your application via your dashboard on VU.nl Within 48 hours* (two working days) of finishing your application in Studielink you will receive your VUnetID (username) and password via email. You can use these to log in to the application portal in your personal dashboard on VU.nl. If you already are (or have been) a VU Amsterdam student, or if you applied before, use your existing VUnetID and password to log in. Complete you application by answering the questions asked in the application portal and make sure to upload the requested items. If applicable, you can also select the specialisation or track of your programme. Complete your application until 100% in your VU dashboard within six weeks and no later than one week after the application deadline closes. Questions? Read our step by step guide to completing your application in your dashboard on VU.nl. *In case you did not receive your login details, please first check your spam folder. If you are still unable to locate them, then contact the UCIT service desk on ucit-servicedesk@vu.nl or +31 (0)20 598 0000. Application documents In the portal you are asked to upload the required documents in PDF-format and submit your application. Required application documents (including the VU Application Form template ) Note that you do not have to send original documents when applying! For the application phase uploading scans of your previous education documents is sufficient. Step 3: Pay the application fee All students with an international degree are required to pay a non-refundable €100 application fee. After we have received the application fee, we will start processing your application. Once you have completed your enrollment application in Studielink, you will receive an email (sent to the address you supplied in Studielink) with information on how you can pay the fee. The easiest way to pay is via the online payment tool. Please do not delay paying the fee as this will delay your application. Read more about how to pay the application fee. Step 4: Wait for the admission decision You will receive a confirmation via email once you have uploaded all the required documents and paid the application fee. Your International Student Advisor will then prepare your file for the Admission Board, with the request to establish your eligibility for admission. We aim to inform you about the admission decision within 4 - 6 weeks. If any further information is needed to determine your eligibility, your International Student Advisor will let you know. Note that certain programme Admission Boards follow a fixed decision schedule - it can then take longer before you receive an outcome. For all questions about the evaluation of your application, please contact your International Student Advisor, whose contact details can be found on the contact page your chosen study programme. If you have been (conditionally) admitted, congratulations! A number of additional steps must now be taken. You can read what you can expect after you've been admitted on our ‘ What happens after admission ’ page. After admission: start your international student onboarding journey! Once you have secured your (conditional) admission to VU Amsterdam, your exciting student onboarding journey begins. International student onboarding To optimise your student experience, VU Amsterdam offers a range of onboarding services and activities. All activities within the onboarding process are aimed at social and academic integration and cultural adaptation to foster your study success. Read more about student onboarding Confirm your participation in your VU Dashboard after conditional admission Do not miss out on any of our essential student services and confirm your participation. You will receive your decision on admission by e-mail (make sure to check your spam folder regularly). Please read this e-mail carefully and keep it in your personal administration. Confirm your participation in your VU dashboard once you have been conditionally admitted. This will enable you to apply for Accommodation and Visa services . Arrange practical matters Before and when you arrive, the International Office will help you to arrange practical matters such as picking up the keys to your room, opening a Dutch bank account, picking up your residence permit and registering at the municipality. More information about the arrangement of practicalities can be found on our When you arrive page . Make sure you meet the English Language Proficiency Requirements If you are applying for one of our English-taught Master's degree programmes you will have to demonstrate sufficient English language proficiency. All applicants are asked for an English language test, unless you qualify for an exemption. You can submit your application and provide test results later. English language requirements Master's programmes Contact, Campus Tour, Student Ambassadors and Student Experiences Visit the Campus The University Campus is the lively hub of the university and you are welcome to pay a virtual visit to get to know the university. Visit the online campus tour and explore the campus, university buildings and more! Contact our Student Ambassadors Do you have a question for a current student? Curious about everyday life in Amsterdam, from our campus to the food, music and events going on throughout the city? Want to know how much homework you will have each night, or how the Dutch educational system differs from your own? Ask one of our VU Ambassadors! They would love to answer your questions by sharing their personal experiences of living and studying at VU Amsterdam. Check the Ambassador's page to find an ambassador from the programme you’re interested in or from your home country. Contact your International Student Advisor For specific questions related to VU programmes, deadlines, the application process, or diploma validity you can find information on our main website or contact your faculty's International Student Advisor (ISA). Read the Student Blog On www.amsterdamstudents.com you can read blog updates from our (international) students. Programmes starting in February Application deadlines The application deadlines for international students wishing to start in February 2026 are as follows: 1 November 2025 for non-EU citizens/students who need a study visa. Non-EU students who need a visa must have started their visa application before 1 December 2025. 1 December 2025 for EU citizens for the Master programmes in Mathematics 1 January 2026 for EU citizens for the Master in Law For studies with a start date of 1 February, please check the programme page of the study of your choice and the Regulations for Application and Enrolment for more details. If you have any questions, please contact the Student Desk or the relevant International Student Advisor . Please note: we do not recommend international students to start their Master's programme in February. We do not organise any introduction activities for the February intake, which means that you will have to take care of all practical matters concerning your arrival yourself. In addition, the set-up of our Master's programmes is not based on a February starting point. Students who begin their studies in February will basically start with semester 2 and continue with semester 1 in September. This makes study planning difficult and the chances of success smaller. Start date: 1 February 2026 The following programmes have a second start date of 1 February 2026 Master Mathematics Master Law Please note: Always consult the contact persons noted in the contact page of the programme you're interested in, to find out about the programme and the possibilities of a February starting date. Dutch University Degree Holders Degree from another Dutch university If you hold a Bachelor’s degree obtained at another institution in the Netherlands, then you may be admitted to a Master’s programme at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. The Admission Board will determine whether your qualification is sufficiently relevant to warrant admission. The Admission Board may, however, impose additional requirements, which must be met before gaining admission to the programme. Deadlines for application and enrollment Most (pre-)master programs have an application deadline of May 31, but you must always check the study programme page for specific application deadlines. An application deadline means you are asked to submit the application of your chosen study programme in Studielink and submit your completed application file in your personal VU dashboard by this date. VU Amsterdam cannot assess your eligibility if your application is incomplete. Once you have been (conditionally) admitted to a study programme, you have until 31 August to complete your enrolment by paying the tuition fees and meeting the admissions conditions (if applicable). Make sure you start and complete your application on time! You cannot enrol retroactively. This means that if your enrolment is not completed by 31 August, you cannot be enrolled as of 1 September of the same academic year. Step 1: apply in Studielink You must apply in Studielink . The deadline for application may vary based on if you require a residence permit or not. Most (pre-)master programmes have an application deadline of 31 May, but you must always check the study programme page for specific application deadlines. If you require a residence permit, then you need to contact studentimmigration@vu.nl regarding the procedure. Practical information In Studielink, choose the programme of your choice with the suffix (master) . In Studielink, you only choose your main study programme. You choose your specialisation when you complete your application in your personal dashboard on VU.nl (step 2). Step 2: complete your application in your personal dashboard on VU.nl After you have applied in Studielink, you will receive login details for the VU student portal by email within 48 hours (two working days). If you already are (or have been) a VU Amsterdam student, or applied before, use your existing VUnetID and password to log in to your dashboard. Did you not receive the login details? Please check your spam folder first. If you don't find them there either, you can contact the UCIT Servicedesk via servicedesk.it@vu.nl or +31 (0)20 - 59 80000. To log in go to your VU-dashboard and click on the profile-icon in the upper right corner. After you have logged in, you can continue with your application via the app Complete application . Answer all questions and upload any requested documents in PDF-format. Only uploading your documents is not sufficient for your application. Step 3: wait for a decision on your application Admission request Always check the study programme page to see if you meet the admission requirements. Do not hesitate to contact the Admission Board if you have any questions. Check your admission and submit an admission request if necessary. Do this as soon as possible after completing your application in your dashboard. Please note that specific deadlines may apply. This depends on the faculty. The Admission Board of the faculty will make a decision within 4-6 weeks and inform you by email. Step 4: submit all required documents Submit the required documents. Unless communicated otherwise in personal correspondence, you have until 31 August to do so. Please note: for documents that are required by the faculty, a faculty-dependent deadline may apply! Therefore, always check the programme page of the study. Certified copies If we need certified copies of documents (such as a diploma or an English proficiency test result), please hand these in at the Student Desk (ground floor, Main Building). Alternatively you can send them by postal mail to the Student Desk before 31 August: Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam Student Administration De Boelelaan 1105 1081 HV, Amsterdam The Netherlands Important information Documents that you have submitted to the Student Desk for your application will not be returned. Therefore, do not hand in any original diplomas. If you only apply in the last two weeks of August, there will be no time left for VU Amsterdam and Studielink to send you a message if any documents are missing. In this situation, you will need to contact the Student Desk in good time to find out what is missing from your application. Would you like more information about the authentication of a copy of your diploma, your examination date or what to do if you do not receive your diploma before 1 September? Please visit this page . Step 5: pay the tuition fees Please check the information on tuition fees and payments. The fees must be paid before 31 August, otherwise you will not become enrolled and cannot start your study programme. Transfer the fees or arrange a direct debit authorisation in Studielink. The latter is only possible if you have a bank account from a bank in the SEPA area . Once you have entered your payment details in Studielink, you will receive an email asking you to confirm the payment. This confirmation will authorise the actual payment, so make sure to complete this step. The (first) instalment is debited at the end of September; you can find the collection calendar here . Step 6: check your enrolment You will receive a notice from Studielink when your student enrolment is complete. Only after having received this notice, you'll know you have met all requirements to become fully enrolled. Your status in Studielink will change to 'enrolled/registered'. The deadline to become fully enrolled is 31 August. If you are not yet enrolled and do not know why, please contact the Student Desk for advice. Accommodation VU Amsterdam is not able to provide accommodation to foreign students who apply while already in the possession of a Dutch degree. You will therefore need to arrange your own accommodation. Programmes starting in February Application deadlines For studies with a start date of 1 February, other application and enrolment deadlines may apply. Check the programme page of the study of your choice and the Regulations for Application and Enrolment . If you have any questions, contact the Student Desk or the faculty's Admissions Board. Start date: 1 February 2025 The following programmes have a second start date of 1 February 2025 in academic year 2025-2026. Master Accounting en Control (deeltijd) Master Chemistry (Joint Degree) Master Physics and Astronomy (Joint Degree) Master Fiscaal Recht (Dutch-taught) Master Mathematics Master Rechtsgeleerdheid The Master's degree programme Medicine (Dutch-taught) has an intake moment every month. Dutch HBO Degree Holders Pre-master’s programme If you hold a Bachelor’s degree obtained from a university of applied sciences (HBO diploma) in the Netherlands, then you may be admitted to a Master’s programme at VU Amsterdam. In most cases, you will have to follow a preparatory pre-master's programme first. This usually takes one year. Pre-master's programmes are mainly taught in Dutch. For more information go to the pre-master's page . The Admission Board of the faculty will determine whether your qualification is sufficiently relevant to warrant admission. The board may place additional requirements on you before granting admission to the programme. Deadlines If you have a non-Dutch nationality and a Dutch degree, then you can usually apply up until 31 May if you require a residence permit. Because of the procedure for changing the residence permit (if applicable), applications received later than 31 May cannot be processed. You need to apply through Studielink and contact the coordinator of the Master’s programme before 31 May. Coordinators and procedures can be found on the website of the relevant Master’s programme. You must also contact studentimmigration@vu.nl for the procedure to change your residence permit if you are a non-EU/EEA student. If you don't require a residence permit, a different deadline may apply. You must always check the study programme page for specific application deadlines. Pre-masters School of Business and Economics (SBE) The School of Business and Economics offers pre-master's programmes with a start date of 1 February. The deadline for application for these programmes is 31 January. Your diploma must state an examination date before 1 February. Pre-master's Faculty of Law Application for the transfer programme of Law (Schakelzone Recht) is possible all year round. Accommodation VU Amsterdam is not able to provide accommodation to any students applying on the basis of a Dutch degree. Therefore, you will need to arrange your own accommodation. Maybe you were looking for this as well? FAQ for international Bachelor's and Master's applicants Language proficiency requirements for Master's degrees International Student Ambassadors and Alumni Ambassadors Do you have any questions? Please contact the Student Desk. If you have questions about the tuition fee, Studielink or your personal dashboard on VU.nl, please contact the Student Desk: studentdesk@vu.nl , stating your student number. Send a message via online chat (Mon – Fri: 10:30 – 12:30h and 14:00 – 16:00h). Call +31 (0)20 59 85020 (Mon – Fri: 10:30 – 12:30 and 14:00 – 16:00). Are you currently a VU student? Ask your question via the question form (log in with your VUnetID) This website uses cookies (and similar techniques). Read full text We use these cookies to collect personal data. We always place functional cookies to make the website function properly. You can also give consent for 1) measuring your behaviour on our website for analysis of the website by VU Amsterdam and two partners; 2) building up a user profile to personalise the website; 3) tracking your internet behaviour across multiple websites by two partners to display content from video platforms (social media); 4) tracking your internet behaviour across multiple websites by four partners to show relevant advertisements and to allow VU Amsterdam to measure which advertisement brought you to our website. You can refuse all cookies, accept cookies for all categories or indicate your preference per category. You can change or withdraw your consent via 'Cookies Settings' in the footer of the website at any time. More information in the cookie statement. This website uses cookies (and similar techniques). We use these cookies to collect personal data. We always place functional cookies to make the website function properly. You can also give consent for 1) measuring your behaviour on our website for analysis of the website by VU Amsterdam and two partners; 2) building up a user profile to personalise the website; 3) tracking your internet behaviour across multiple websites by two partners to display content from video platforms (social media); 4) tracking your internet behaviour across multiple websites by four partners to show relevant advertisements and to allow VU Amsterdam to measure which advertisement brought you to our website. You can refuse all cookies, accept cookies for all categories or indicate your preference per category. You can change or withdraw your consent via 'Cookies Settings' in the footer of the website at any time. More information in the cookie statement. Accept all cookies Only functional cookies Set my preferences Cookie statement Cookie preferences You can accept all cookies or set your preference per cookie category. More information can be found in the cookie declaration. Accept all cookies Cookie statement Personal settings: Functional These cookies are used to make our website function properly. Analytical These cookies are used to measure (analyse) website usage based on your behaviour on our websites, such as click behaviour and session duration. This measurement data is used to create statistics that we use to improve the website. Some of this data is shared with Crazy Egg and Google. Personalisation These cookies are used to analyse how you use our website. This allows us to customise the content of our website with information that matches your interests. Social media These cookies are set by Vimeo and YouTube. The cookies enable videos from these external platforms to be visible on vu.nl. Once you play the video, Vimeo and YouTube may collect data about your usage and combine it with any data previously collected about you, such as browser and device data, the page you visit, and your interaction with the video. This data may be used by Vimeo and YouTube for analysis, personalisation and possibly advertising purposes. Advertisements These cookies are set by VU Amsterdam and our advertising partners Google, LinkedIn, Meta and Snapchat. These third parties track your browsing behaviour across multiple websites in order to display relevant ads. They may combine this information with other data that you have provided to them, for example if you are logged in to one of their services, or that they have collected through your use of their platforms. These cookies also allow VU Amsterdam to measure whether our campaigns on different channels are effective by seeing how you came to our website. Save Quick links Homepage Culture on campus VU Sports Centre Dashboard Study Academic calendar Study guide Timetable Canvas Featured VUfonds VU Magazine Ad Valvas Digital accessibility About VU Contact us Working at VU Amsterdam Faculties Divisions Privacy Disclaimer Safety Web Colophon Cookie Settings Web Archive Copyright © 2025 - Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam