# Source: https://www.universityadmissions.se/intl/start

Universityadmissions.se - Apply to Swedish universities Apply to courses and programmes in all of Sweden Autumn 2025 Spring 2026 Summer 2026 Autumn 2026 Semester (Optional) Courses and programmes Find courses Find courses & programmes Apply to master's Find detailed, step-by-step instructions on how to complete and submit an application for master's studies in Sweden. Apply to bachelor's If you're interested in bachelor's studies, find step-by-step instructions on how to apply to University Admissions. Dates and deadlines A successful admissions process means meeting deadlines. Find out all the important dates for your application. Starting the admissions process? Take a look at our guide to what you need to do, when - and where Your most frequently asked questions What are the deadlines for submitting my transcripts and English test results, and when will I get my admissions decision? All admission rounds have their own special set of important dates for: application deadlines when transcripts and English test results must be received when the application fee (if required) must be paid admissions decisions deadline for replying to admission offers (if a reply is required). Find out more at Key dates and deadlines Minimize What are the deadlines for submitting my transcripts and English test results, and when will I get my admissions decision? How will I know if everything is OK with the documentation I submitted? Applicants aren't notified that everything is OK with their documents; you'll be notified only if there is something more that is required. University Admissions will notify you by sending a message to your account here at Universityadmissions.se. We may ask for: documents related to previous studies ID documents documentation of English skills If you're wondering when your documents arrived, you can check the 'Documents' section when you log in to your account. If you uploaded your documents, you'll see a list of the files that you submitted to University Admissions. Unfortunately, you are unable to open and view these files. There is also a section for documents submitted by the postal/delivery service. It can take a few weeks to scan in and register the documents you submit this way. When the process is complete, you'll see a listing with a date. The date will be the date your documents arrived. The application review process takes time Due to the number of applications we receive, the application review process can take some time. Please note that an evaluation of your application does not automatically occur as soon as your documents are received. The application review process takes place up until the selection process, which occurs right before admissions results are posted. We appreciate your patience while the review process is completed. Minimize How will I know if everything is OK with the documentation I submitted? Who is required to pay application and tuition fees? Most applicants who are not a citizen of an European Union (EU) or European Economic Area (EEA) country, or Switzerland, are required to pay application and tuition fees. Formal exchange students and doctoral students are exempted from tuition fees, as well as the application fee. Students who are registered for a course or programme at a Swedish university at the time they submit their application are not required to pay an application fee. Find out more at Who is required to pay fees Minimize Who is required to pay application and tuition fees? What are officially issued documents? Officially issued means that your documents have been issued by a representative of the Academic Registrar's Office, the Examinations Office, or the equivalent office that issues official documentation of records at your university. You can't certify your own document copies. Self-certified transcripts, including printouts or screenshots from student self-service websites, are not accepted. You can find out how to submit officially issued documents here at Universityadmissions.se. Read more about making sure my documents are officially issued Minimize What are officially issued documents? My application status is ’Unqualified’. What does that mean? The application status ‘Unqualified’ means that you don’t fulfil the general entry requirements. You haven’t submitted complete documentation by the supporting documentation deadline. The status is not a final admissions result. If you believe you meet the general entry requirements, you can submit further documentation as proof. Any documents you submit at this stage won’t be assessed until after the admission results have been published. Minimize My application status is ’Unqualified’. What does that mean? What's the deadline for submitting my academic documents? All admission rounds have their own special set of important dates for: application deadlines when transcripts and English test results must be received when the application fee (if required) must be paid admissions decisions deadline for replying to admission offers (if a reply is required). Please see Key dates and deadlines to find your admission round and your key dates. Minimize What's the deadline for submitting my academic documents? How many master's programmes can I apply for? Master's applicants can apply for up to 4 study programmes, but will be offered a place in just 1. Please note that ranking your selections is very important. If you're offered a place in a higher ranked programme, the ones that are ranked lower will be deleted. Read more at ranking your selections Minimize How many master's programmes can I apply for? What's important when ranking master's selections? In Sweden, you apply for all courses and programmes on one application. When the time comes for selection, the first course/programme on your list - the one ranked first - is the first that will be considered. For the master's level, you can be accepted to only one master's programme. Once you've been offered a place in a programme, all programmes you ranked lower will be deleted and not considered. It's very important that you put the programme/course you most want to study as your top choice, then the next, and so on. Once you've been offered a place, your lower-ranked selections will be deleted. You can read more at ranking your selections Minimize What's important when ranking master's selections? More questions at the Support Centre From application to results There are several steps and decisions that are made during the processing of your admissions application. Find out more about them - and what you can do after each one. Find out what you need to submit Find out what documents you need to complete your master's application Article English language requirements All courses taught in English have an English requirement. Find out what that is - and the ways you can meet the requirement.